[Music]
what happens to your body when you
exercise for 30 minutes a day it's
always hard to force yourself to go to
the gym and start doing all these
push-ups squats and splits but doing
sports is not as difficult as you may
think in fact studies show that even 30
minutes of daily exercise is enough to
keep you healthy and in shape and when
you feel the energy boost that every
workout leaves you with and see the
first results you'll find a soft spot in
your heart for exercising let's take a
look at what you can expect from your
body when you finally pull yourself
together and start training did you know
that regular exercising can prolong your
life watch the video to find out even
more amazing benefits of daily workouts
believe us after watching this video
you'll see exercising in a whole new
light during training during training
your system goes through a lot of
processes first of all your metabolic
rate increases simply speaking your body
burns more calories that's why a lot of
experts suggest not to be so strict with
yourself and eat a pizza or a piece of
cake if you want but always do a couple
more exercises when usual during your
next workout also your blood viscosity
improves this applies to both light and
heavy exercises working out stimulates
the growth of new blood vessels plus the
oxygen flow rate increases from usual 8
liters at the times of rest to 100
litres per minute this happens because
your muscles are working harder when you
exercise and again your system needs
oxygen to burn calories more effectively
the increased blood flow allows the
cells to take in more oxygen and
nutrition from blood as well
it also has a positive effect on your
brain cells improving their work that's
why when you do at least a little bit of
exercising early in the morning it helps
you quickly become more focused and
awake just after training everyone knows
this feeling that you get after a good
training when you feel exhausted but at
the same time surprisingly energized
well at this time your brain starts to
release more endorphins which lifts your
mood endorphins reduce pain as they
activate special receptors in your brain
they also have a bunch of other positive
effects on your body and mind they help
overcome addictions deal with anxiety
depression and overall improve your
immune system your body also begins to
digest proteins and carbohydrates four
times faster so you lose weight more
quickly well I don't know about you but
I'm going to the gym now plus a good
thing to do just after a workout is to
have a cold shower
this way you'll lower your chances of
feeling sore the next morning or during
your next training a few hours after
training a couple of hours after a
workout your blood pressure becomes
normalized plus did you notice that you
become more confident after training and
your self-esteem improves you feel like
you can do anything and your motivation
grows no wonder that happens you just
survived numerous crunches planks and
lunges still it sharpens your brain and
helps you work more effectively you also
begin to sleep better as your sleep
quality improves you fall asleep quicker
and wake up energized
well now you can forget about all the
countless attempts to open your eyes in
the morning you'll feel relaxed and
ready to kick start your day and you
won't need the snooze button as you can
guess you don't need to wait for months
to see the first positive changes
workouts bring into your life you can
feel little improvements just after a
couple of hours
after a few weeks of regular training
proper training gradually improves your
system your heart and blood vessels
start to work better your lung capacity
improves which leads to a general
increase of your stamina as you'll
continue regular exercising you would
forget about such a thing as being short
of breath that's also the benefit of
great lung capacity talking of other
great changes a week of working out
leads to your blood hemoglobin level
also improves the number of red blood
cells per cubic millimeter of blood
increases from five million to 6 million
your immune system becomes way stronger
the level of lymphocytes in the blood
goes up which helps your body fight
bacteria and different viruses faster
and more efficiently among other things
your body regulates the level of sugar
and other substances in the blood more
easily the best thing is that your body
stores less fat additionally regular
workouts get you tougher stronger and
harder sounds amazing isn't it
after a few months of regular training
months of regular training influence
your system on a whole other level first
of all the oxygen transfer to your
muscles increases and micro circulatory
blood flow improves secondly the
coordination of your movements improve
which also helps you strengthen your
nervous system in fact the speed of
nerve and pulse transmission increases
which results in the improvement of
brain activity so you start to make
decisions more quickly and stop
hesitating and getting nervous for no
reason moreover the musculoskeletal
system of your body strengthens so your
bones become denser you become less
prone to stress and you're less likely
to experience depression and mood swings
also regular workouts positively change
your character you become more
determined and strong-willed for some
people regular exercise even turns into
some therapy it helps to release strong
emotions such as pain and anger and
clears the mind from all the problems
and bad thoughts and this way of dealing
with possible issues is amazing because
in the process you're becoming stronger
both physically and mentally and if
everything seemed awful in the beginning
it gets less hard with each training and
way more enjoyable after a few years of
regular training well aside from the
obvious things that years of regular
training and workouts give you like an
overall improvement of your system and
making you fitter they also increase
your life expectancy this statement
applies to any form of physical activity
that you're doing in your spare time if
you're not a big fan of the gym you can
always find something dear liking for
example cycling or even create your own
program of exercises that you would
enjoy or at least tolerate if you lack
motivation and fortunately enough you
have a friend who also can pull him or
herself to start working out you can try
to go to the gym together so that you
can stimulate one another also another
fact is that when you regularly workout
you stay young for longer who doesn't
want that right and even more amazingly
recent studies showed that daily
workouts slow brain aging so the
ultimate recipe for being fit healthy
and beautiful keeping your mind clear
and sharp and build such qualities as
determination and strong will is just
simply exercising
years of daily workouts may sound
dreadful right now but just start and
believe us when you'll see the
difference you won't regret it what
helps you motivate yourself to go to the
gym and how often do you exercise tell
us in the comments section below
and if you want to see more videos like
this hit the like button below the video
and share it with your friends and join
us on the bright side